Indonesia signs free trade deal with Russian-led Eurasian Economic Union | Reuters Skip to main content Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market professionals Learn more about Refinitiv Feedback A drone view shows stacks of containers at the Tanjung Priok port in Jakarta, Indonesia, July 10, 2025. REUTERS/Ajeng Dinar Ulfiana Purchase Licensing Rights , opens new tab JAKARTA, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Indonesia and the Russia-led Eurasian Economic Union have signed a free trade agreement aimed at increasing two-way trade, Indonesia's trade ministry said on Monday. The signing of the FTA took place in St. Petersburg, Russia, over the weekend, witnessed by Russian President Vladimir Putin, and leaders of other countries within the EAEU, which comprises Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia. Indonesia was represented by Trade Minister Budi Santoso. The Reuters Daily Briefing newsletter provides all the news you need to start your day. Sign up here. Advertisement · Scroll to continue Under the agreement, reached after two years of negotiations , the union will grant Indonesia preferential rates for 90.5% of its total tariff lines, which gives Southeast Asia's biggest economy access to the bloc's 180 million people, the Indonesian ministry said. The ministry did not provide details about the trade concessions made by Jakarta as part of the agreement. Indonesia has a population of 280 million people. "Indonesia's leading products will gain broader and more competitive market access," minister Budi said in a statement. "This will drive increased exports of palm oil and its derivatives, footwear, textiles, fisheries, rubber, furniture and electronics," he said. Advertisement · Scroll to continue The statement quoted Chairman of the Board of the EAEU Bakytzhan Sagintayev as saying that the FTA could double two-way trade between the bloc and Indonesia. Between January to October this year, total trade between Indonesia and the union stood at $4.4 billion, with Indonesian exports at $1.76 billion and imports from the bloc amounting to $2.64 billion, according to the trade ministry. Indonesia's top export products to the EAEU are palm oil, coconut oil, coffee and cocoa, while the union's main exports are coal, potassium fertiliser, wheat and ferro-alloys. Reporting by Gayatri Suroyo, Dewi Kurniawati; Editing by David Stanway Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. , opens new tab Share X Facebook Linkedin Email Link Purchase Licensing Rights Read Next 1 hour ago ANALYSIS Global investors turn to Chinese AI as Wall Street fears bubble 2 hours ago Myanmar set to resume LNG imports after receiving cargo last month, analyst says 3 hours ago Science category Innospace's rocket crashes in first commercial launch in Brazil; shares tumble 38 mins ago Gold hits record high on safe-haven demand; silver climbs to new peak 2 hours ago China pledges to step up urban renewal, stabilise housing market in 2026 4 hours ago World category China's Kuaishou shares fall to near five-week low after livestreaming cyberattack World Russian attack targets Ukraine energy infrastructure after Miami peace talks World category · December 23, 2025 · 3:37 PM GMT+7 · 5 mins ago Russia attacked Kyiv and Ukraine’s energy infrastructure, triggering emergency outages and prompting NATO member Poland to scramble jets to protect its airspace, two days after U.S.-led Miami peace talks ended. Sports category England to probe reports of excessive drinking during Ashes break 3:27 PM GMT+7 Sustainability category Uganda restricts imports of Starlink equipment weeks before election 3:23 PM GMT+7 Asia Pacific category Thailand eyes measures on 'huge' gold trading volumes amid baht surge 3:17 PM GMT+7 Asia Pacific category Five Pakistani police personnel killed in 'gun and bomb' attack 3:16 PM GMT+7